The answer to that question is yes.
Are we recording now?
Well, the answer to that question is yes.
Gus, Gus, Gus, that's too much.
Let's see Gus, I've got to be able to see my notes.
There you go.
Asking for excuses, until one thing, until it got to the point that I personally made the decision we would give no one an excuse.
This was in a flu epidemic.
other people's time was being consumed with writing excuses for people.
And I thought, you know, these people are too busy to be writing these excuses.
There will be no excuses.
No one under any circumstances will get one.
And I don't know how I remember it got that out to the faculty, to instructors and so forth, but the word got around.
And then they, after that, they didn't ask anymore.
As the student body grew, the number of patients increased, but also as it became more diverse, male and female, and in nationality, national background,
How did that affect the health center?
Female, of course, we had a clinic, a GYN clinic.
So we had a special clinic for female medical problems once a week.
I can't honestly remember any problems with international students.
Well they were always very picky about themselves, very- You said picky?
Picky.
Like for instance I have a rash here.
See that right there?
Can't see a rash, you know.
I don't know.
I remember that in East Indians more than any other group.
Otherwise, no particular problems.
Any problems about their religious background causing them not to accept certain medicines or treatments?
None.
Not a single one that I can remember.
No Jehovah's Witnesses or anything like that.
Nor, well,
I think we may have administered some blood, but for the most part, if a student needed blood administered, we transferred them over to St.
Joseph or the home.
They always had the option of going home.
They didn't have to do what we suggested.
They just, we just suggested they have further treatment.
Most of them stayed right here, and they wanted to get back to the health center as soon as they could.
How often did you run into something that was drug related?
Very, very seldom.
At least that we had sense enough to know what was in fact drug related.
One boy ate some mushrooms one day, was picking mushrooms, and these are particular kind of mushrooms that they eat.
I didn't realize it until then.
They grow up through cow patties in the pasture.
So I had noticed before that
student-age people stooping over in pastures doing something.
I didn't know what they were doing.
Then this guy comes in and he had been picking mushrooms that grew out of the cow patties.
He was delirious.
He was manageable easily.
He was delusional.
He was looking at the centerfold of Playboy, and it came alive, which of course was, I mean, what better thing could you hope for than that Playboy centerfold is alive and right there.
He had made a sandwich out of them.
And he put a bunch of them on a sandwich and for some strange reason had decided to flick a few of them off before he ate it.
And then went ahead and ate the sandwich and sure enough had these delusions.
And how did you treat that?
Time.
Put him to bed and give him a little time.
We knew what that one was all about.
Drugs nowadays I think probably would be harder to either detect or to, well, we would be more conscious of them.
Do you remember any situations where you all couldn't figure out what the problem was?
Yeah.
There were problems.
We had some meningitis.
We didn't know what kind.
We didn't have facilities to do cultures on spinal fluid.
Some infectious mono.
Infectious mono is sort of a great mimicker.
It can do lots and lots of things, including pneumonia, and that's exactly what we had to put up with was pneumonia.
You might know that that would happen in the Student Health Center.
Can't think of any other things that we had serious problems with.
A lot of infectious diseases, of course.
Measles, mumps, chicken pox.
Which of those was the most difficult to cope with?
Probably, although it probably represented fewer of the cases than measles, was mumps.
Because we had mumps with orchitis, we had it with meningitis, we had one with a pneumonia.
Of course there's no treatment, it's just supportive care.
Both boys and girls, men and women?
Yeah, yeah, both.
And we never had any- Not a lot of these now, but these are memories that I have.
And no big outbreak of any food, dining hall food caused?
No, no.
A lot, of course, that was, that people wanted to blame on Cebiza.
But I felt that Cebiza, that there was never a problem there.
In terms of... I thought that the problems would be much bigger than they actually were if it were something like Cebiza.
And I just didn't believe it.
In your years of experience, did you ever really feel that y'all got many patients where the problem had originated in either campus dining hall?
That the clean- You mean like isolated cases even?
Yeah, were there- Not epidemics.
That the cause of the problem was a lack of cleanliness?
Oh, absolutely not.
That's what I thought.
No.
Never.
Never any question that came up that I remember.
Did you ever get from any higher authority campus or board or politician or any former student any special directive to do something or not to do something?
Not, no, no.
You never had to?
People left us alone.
I think they sort of assumed that we knew what our job was and knew reasonably well how to do it and weren't really going to take any orders from anybody else.
And I know that sounds... No board member ever came over and tried to tell you how to run the health center or anything?
One board member came over one night, I remember.
I happened to be there.
And he wanted treatment, and I treated him.
But I let him know in not uncertain terms, but not very pleasantly.
He probably didn't even know what I was telling him, that we didn't normally treat the board, that we were a student health center, and here for the students, and so forth.
And to my knowledge, that's the last time I ever treated anybody for the board.
But I heard absolutely, I expected, I was ready for any eventuality after that, but I never got anything.
Once the medical school here began, did that have any effect on the Student Health Center?
Jim Knight was...
President.
Dean.
Dean of the medical school.
And I wanted to have a close relationship with him.
With him, and I did with him, and with the medical school.
I wanted to teach
And I felt that I could and so when they got set up they asked me to teach physical diagnosis.
Now physical diagnosis is simply by way of physical exam, beginning at least or finishing, making a diagnosis of a physical illness on the basis of a physical finding.
What you see, what you hear, what you feel, so forth.
And I was teaching that.
And I would teach, I would have four or five students, oh every other afternoon or so.
And because I didn't, obviously didn't have a great deal of time, and we would meet at the health center where we had teaching material so to speak.
And I enjoyed it thoroughly and I thought it was a good idea.
Physical diagnosis has since sort of become less important.
It's old-fashioned.
It's too easy to order an x-ray than to listen to a chest, you know?
It's too easy to order an MRI than to fill someone's abdomen or look for a gallstone or something like that.
That's the situation now.
What happened in medical school, I honestly don't know, but Jim was not there for long.
And not long after he left there began to be less and less said and done about my physical diagnosis class.
I don't think it was me.
I was just doing what I was taught, which is what my profs were taught at Johns Hopkins, which is where they came from.
So I really think everything was okay.
I think they probably felt that it got old fashioned.
Did the medical school ever raise the question about using the Student Health Center as a clinic where some of their students might observe?
I offered many times, many times, but they never, never really did anything about it.
What was the relationship with the Health Center and your relationship with the local medical community otherwise?
St.
Joe's and
Our interrelationships.
Well, of course, I had a good relationship with the medical society.
Well, not so much the medical staff at the medical school.
Because I didn't necessarily know them all.
I never really got into that group.
I knew Joyce Davis and I knew Jack, oh the one that got in trouble out there.
He invented something and he sued them for some reason.
I think they discharged him.
I don't know.
I forget his last name.
But anyway, it's just as well.
But among the first ones to come on the staff, I knew them.
Right then, at St.
Joseph's, what about the relationship?
St.
Joseph's?
I was never actually on the staff.
No, no.
I was meaning that the working relationship between the Student Health Center and St.
Joseph.
Oh, it was excellent.
Yeah, yeah.
I never heard any complaints.
Were you pleased with the kind of service which you think St.
Joseph provided to patients from the campus?
Yes, mm-hmm, yes.
Yeah.
I presume, well, it may not be a completely fair presumption, but I presume that they, as many times as I have been an inpatient myself at St.
Joseph, that they gave our students the same kind of care that they gave me, and it was good.
I was very well pleased with it.
A few times I talked with the administrator over there and I forget what his name is.
He's not the administrator now.
specifically talking about, not talking about how specific students were treated, but specifically talking about what I would like to, kind of treatment I would like for students to have and that sort of thing.
In other words, nothing special, but at the same time, best service they had to give.
How capable, during your years of activity,
How capable was the local medical community to meet our needs?
Pretty well, pretty well.
It wasn't often that we had to, say, take someone or send someone out of town who went home who wouldn't have otherwise for illnesses that we couldn't handle.
Of course, obviously, major surgical problems.
We had, incidentally, consultants.
We had an orthopedic consultant.
We had a urology consultant whom we talked into coming out to the health center once a week to operate a clinic.
Orthopedics, urology, surgery.
Those were the main ones.
And are you like I that stand in almost awe about how much greater
the medical capability is here now than it was 20 years ago plus.
Absolutely.
Capability, diagnostic equipment, it's different between night and day.
I was asking about high points.
What are some low points, some frustrations, disappointments?
Well of course staff problems that I had to deal with constantly.
They bothered me and they bothered me almost
in a way, not that I had to do the work or that someone else may have had to do the work, but that these are people to be pitied almost rather than criticized, you know.
And unfortunately I couldn't really work up a great deal of pity.
But anyway, other low points.
Of course, when I retired, I even talked to John one night, and he and Meridell were over here, and I was doing very, very well after my surgery, and I told him,
I sort of made an assumption that he would want me back, you know, and I told him that I would love to come back perhaps doing less, perhaps just working in the treatment room or something like that.
He said, no, I don't think that would be too good an idea right now.
And I think it was because
The very day that I had my tachycardia, remember when I told you I fainted?
That very day there was some talk on campus in John's office, I suppose, and some woman whose name I don't remember married somebody.
to the effect that I was not doing a good job at the health center.
That very day.
As a matter of fact, that's what made me, I was under such tension that day, that's what made me faint and what made this thing happen.
But anyway,
I mentioned it to John that I would be glad to come back.
And he said, I don't think that would be tactful the way John always is.
I don't think that would be too good an idea right now.
No, just let it go with that.
And then I sort of began to piece things together.
But I think a low point in that respect was not so much that I
understood that I would not be going back to work at the health center, but rather that they started making such drastic changes to the health center
I was hardly, you know, a comparable example, cold in my grave before they put on new front doors.
Now that shouldn't bother you.
That's something I campaigned for for 15 years and nobody paid any attention to me.
That they took the kitchen, that was dear to my heart.
That they took the inpatient service, that was dearer still.
made quite a few changes to the point that now, unless I don't know if I specifically said it, I have absolutely nothing in common with the health center, the people out there.
I don't even know the people.
Most of the people I worked with have retired themselves.
And, of course, I claim I wouldn't have a place to park anyway if I went out there.
And I have no business out there to do.
So the only time I had been back to the health center was when Patsy Luce, the dear sweet thing, did some papers from me of some sort.
And she must have realized that I had problems and that I didn't really particularly want to go in the health center at the time.
And she suggested that she bring the papers out and I drove up.
I think her excuse was that I couldn't, there was no place to park.
Oh, they had stopped parking in front of the health center altogether then.
And she met me on the front steps and gave me the papers.
I think there was a whole lot more to it than she ever told me.
But nevertheless, that's a low point, just missing all of those things.
What about goofy?
Goofy, goofy.
Oh surely there were thousands of goofy things.
Something got mixed up, some student had some goofy idea.
I'm assuming that there was never any attempt by the students at any kind of jokes or pranks in or around the health center.
No, no.
Other than perhaps going on pass and coming back drunk.
Yeah.
No, no pranks.
Goofy is really hard for me.
I'm sure there's some things there.
Nobody got any medication horribly mixed up?
No, not that I ever knew about.
Let's see, and there were no... Oh, interesting.
I was such a... So cold-natured, they call me.
I had the air conditioning turned down.
that they were always talking about it.
And I went up one time, I think I was on call, but I went up one time after hours.
The nurses had mufflers on and mittens and stocking caps and so forth.
They didn't say a word to me.
They just walked around like that.
Including Elizabeth Taylor who, dear sweet thing, she has since died of heart disease herself.
Great, great big fat black woman.
I don't know if you, I mean she was an easy 400 pounds.
I never tangled with her but I would sure hate to tangle with her.
One time she bumped up against me sort of like just in fun like that you know.
I mean, she just almost knocked me down.
But she was just a wonderful, wonderful person.
And I remember her.
I can see her right now in the muffler and the mittens and the cap and so forth.
And they didn't say anything to me about it.
They just presented themselves that way.
What did you do as a diversion hobby, relaxation, by yourself or with your wife?
Oh, gee whiz, not much.
I essentially didn't take any vacation.
When I worked my last day on August the 18th, Wheezy tells me it is, I thought it was the 22nd, I got paychecks, full paychecks,
without even being present at the health center through July.
That was all vacation.
I don't know how much it was.
But I seldom took any vacation days.
But when you were home, what did you do?
When I was at home.
Didn't hunt, didn't fish?
Don't hunt, don't fish.
And by the way, I'm left-handed, so I would shoot a gun if I shot a gun on my left shoulder.
And I've got my implanted device up here so I could never shoot a gun again.
No hobbies?
Not to speak of.
No, that's awful, Haskell.
Were you in the choir?
Of course, we were in the choir from the very first day.
The first day we joined the church, by the way, was the day that Harold Wells died.
My, my.
He, I forget his name, wife's name too.
Helen?
Charlotte.
Charlotte, of course.
And the first day we joined the church, she called here.
and ask if, what, just ask for my advice, what to do.
And I said, by all means, go directly to the St.
Joseph's Hospital.
I said, I can't treat him because I'm not on staff there.
And at that stage, he was in a sweat, I mean a cold sweat, and was having pain.
And he died the next day, or died that night.
This is the First Presbyterian Church and Bryan.
Yeah, First Presbyterian and Bryan.
How did you all happen to pick that church?
Well, I'm a Presbyterian, have always been, and I'll tell you how we picked it.
We were going to visit all kinds of churches, and so we gravitated to the Presbyterian church first, and the organ was so pretty that I said, here we are.
This is it.
We don't need to bother to go anywhere else.
As a matter of fact,
I moved away from the church, went to that other smaller Presbyterian church.
Wheezy says, don't you want to try that church?
I said, absolutely not.
I'm staying with the organ.
So it was bad, exactly.
sort of assumption that I would be a Presbyterian.
And so the whole family has been raised Presbyterian now.
But yes, every Wednesday night, every Sunday in the choir ever since the first day.
For both of you?
For both of us.
And had you done much singing before coming here?
In the choir, yeah.
Even from the time I was in the Air Force and of course when we were in Hendersonville.
Do you have favorite kinds of music?
You mean like to play on a CD player for instance?
Well what music do you enjoy most?
To listen to and sing?
As a class, classical music, Broadway music, and that's what the collection I have.
That's one of my hobbies, I just listen to music.
That's not much I know, nothing to show for it.
But nevertheless, as far as singing in church, probably the prettiest music is Mozart's.
Everything he wrote.
There has been a time in my life when I didn't like anything that Mozart wrote.
Now I like everything that Mozart wrote.
And what caused the change, I have no idea.
It just came to my senses, I suppose.
And you saw the movie Amadeus.
Maybe, maybe.
Let me turn it off.
I remember a stupid thing that happened in undergraduate school at Duke, and I just got to mention it.
We lived on the third floor of the dorm.
They're gothic sort of dorms.
Slate roofs and all.
These deep ones, as a matter of fact.
This is in a corner and in the corner is a little sort of a turret type thing.
We were on the third floor.
And oh, in the wee hours of the morning we dared a friend.
to jump out.
There was a tree, one of those evergreen trees, the kind that will bend over if you, you know, jump on the top.
Dared him to jump out there, jump out that window and literally fly through the air and grab that tree and go down the tree.
And he did.
I'll never forget it.
It had snowed, and we had a snowball fight.
We would get snow off the roof, and the water was almost that deep in the halls where the snow had melted, and we got in trouble that night.
But I can't think of any goofy darn things in the health center.
No hijinks.
Nobody ever got up and tried to run out in their
skivvies or nobody smuggled any food in or anything like that?
No, why do you suppose that was?
Were we so straight-laced if they wouldn't do something like that?
I don't know.
All right, looking back on... If something occurs to me, I'll let you know.
All right, looking back on all these years, to whom are you most grateful here?
For whatever?
Several people.
Jack Williams, of course, has to be in the list.
Howard Perry.
Howard Perry was sort of my, I guess, my mentor, really.
And finish with him, but then why Williams?
I think I know, but why?
Oh, gee, everything, really.
His whole personality.
He also knew how I was running the health center and let me do it.